{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf949\cocoasubrtf540
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 PITCH MOD\
\
R26 -> R 39\
\
Pitch mod harder\
Jumper  C14 -> R 41\
pot 500k\
\
\
\
DRum tone soft\
R41 -> jumper vert c17\
\
\
DIST\
R16 -> jumper R26\
\
\
\
I've been poking around a Casio rapman \
and found some bends that I'd like to share. Most of \
them effect the beats. Haven't \
found anything to effect the pitch. I don't think that it uses an \
RC circuit for timing... \
\
All the components on the circuit board are marked with numbers \
(R32, C13, ect) so I'll give the number to be connected. \
\
FB1 - R36 = overtone lead overtop of the beat \
\
R16 - FB1 = loud good sound pitch can be changed by 10k pot or \
chirping made with 0.02uf cap) \
\
FB1 - emmiter of trans'r by R36 = complex tone lead created over beat \
\
FB5 - a bunch of different places including the tops of electrolitic \
capacitors = by far the best of the bunch. When in "rap" mode \
with the beat playing quickly make a connection and it produces \
random well timed glitched out loops or crashes out compleatly. Use \
on/off sw. to reset. \
\
FB4 - R12/R13/R14 (and a bunch of other places) = pretty much the \
same as above but seems to make different sounding loops. Good to \
do the above glitch first and then this one after to change it a bit. \
\
Also there are two area's on the left and side of the board with \
five or six parallel jumpers (wires). One group running up and down \
and the other running side to side. I can't figure out how to \
explain which wire is which, but... with a beat playing, poke around \
in there, connecting one group to the other, until something good \
happens. You should get an overtone that plays along with the \
beat. This is also one of my fav's. \
\
Last thing and maybe the best, /.../. The rapman has a builtin "voice effector" which \
pitchshits your voice up or down (in octaves or fifths I think). I \
bought one of the $2 mikes that they sell in dollar stores around \
here and took out the small plastic cylinder that the diaphram is \
mounted in and then hooked it up perminantly to the keyboard. The \
first cool thing that you can do with this is hum into it like a \
kazoo and it makes a wicked, very electronic sounding lead. Doesn't \
sound anything like anything make by a mike. The second thing that \
you can do with this little mike is hold it infront of the speaker \
for some nasty sounds. It picks up whats playing and pitch shifts \
it up or down. You can also control the feedback to the point that \
you can actually play it. Put the mike close for three counts take \
it away for one. /.../ \
}